// Copyright (c) 2018, Intel Corporation.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause

ifdef::manpage[]
ipmctl-load-goal(1)
===================
endif::manpage[]

NAME
----
ipmctl-load-goal - Load a memory allocation goal from a file onto DCPMMs

SYNOPSIS
--------
[verse]
ipmctl load [OPTIONS] -source (path) -goal [TARGETS]

DESCRIPTION
-----------
Load a memory allocation goal from a file onto one or more DCPMMs.

NOTE: Changing the memory configuration is a destructive operation which may
result in loss of data stored in the persistent memory region. Therefore, data
should be backed up to other storage before executing this command. Changing a
memory allocation goal modifies how the platform maps persistent memory, but
does not explicitly delete or modify user data found in persistent memory.

OPTIONS
-------
-f::
-force::
    Reconfiguring DCPMMs is a destructive operation which requires
    confirmation from the user. This option suppresses the confirmation.

-h::
-help::
    Displays help for the command.

ifdef::os_build[]
-o (text|nvmxml)::
-output (text|nvmxml)::
    Changes the output format. One of: "text" (default) or "nvmxml".
endif::os_build[]

-u (B|MB|MiB|GB|GiB|TB| TiB)::
-units (B|MB|MiB|GB|GiB|TB| TiB)::
    Changes the units that capacities are displayed in for this command. One of:
    bytes (B), megabytes (MB), mebibytes (MiB), gigabytes (GB), gibibytes (GiB),
    terabytes (TB) or tebibytes (TiB).

TARGETS
-------
-dimm (DimmIDs)::
  Loads the memory allocation goal onto specific DCPMMs by supplying one or more
  comma separated DCPMM identifiers. The default is to load the memory
  allocation goal onto all manageable DCPMMs.

-socket (SocketIds)::
  Loads the memory allocation goal onto all manageable DCPMMs on specific
  sockets by supplying the socket target and one or more comma-separated socket
  identifiers. The default is to load the memory allocation goal onto all
  manageable DCPMMs on all sockets.

EXAMPLES
--------
Loads the configuration settings stored in "config.txt" onto all the DCPMMs in
the system as a memory allocation goal to be applied by the BIOS on the next
reboot.
[verse]
ipmctl load -source config.txt -goal

Loads the configuration settings stored in "config.txt" onto a specified set of
DCPMMs as a memory allocation goal to be applied by the BIOS on the next reboot.
[verse]
ipmctl load -source config.txt -goal -dimm 1,2,3

Loads the configuration settings stored in "config.txt" onto all manageable
DCPMMs on sockets 1 and 2 as a memory allocation goal to be applied by the BIOS
on the next reboot.
[verse]
ipmctl load -source config.txt -goal -socket 1,2

LIMITATIONS
-----------
The specified DCPMM(s) must be manageable by the host software and unlocked if
security is enabled. Namespaces associated with the requested DCPMM(s) must be
deleted before running this command.

The specified DCPMM(s) must be manageable by the host software and unlocked if
security is enabled. Namespaces associated with the requested DCPMM(s) must be
deleted before running this command.

RETURN DATA
-----------
If successful, the CLI will display the memory allocation goal stored on each
DCPMM as documented in the command Section 2.2.6, “Show Memory Allocation Goal.”
If a failure occurs, an error code and message will be displayed. If a failure
occurs when configuring multiple DCPMMs, the process will exit and remove the
memory allocation goal from any DCPMMs that succeeded prior to the failure.
